---
toc: true
layout: post
badges: true
comments: true
author: Khalid farah
categories: [fastpages, markdown]
title: Lesson 17-18 hacks
---

# Hack 1
A decidable problem is a problem for which an algorithm or a procedure can be written that always terminates after a finite number of steps and correctly answers whether a given input to the problem is a valid solution or not. An example of a decidable problem is determining whether a given string of text is a palindrome (a word or phrase that reads the same forwards and backwards). An undecidable problem is a problem for which it is impossible to design an algorithm or a procedure that always terminates and correctly answers whether a given input is a valid solution or not. An example of an undecidable problem is the Halting problem, which is the problem of determining, given a description of an arbitrary computer program and an input, whether the program will finish running or continue to run forever.
# Hack 2
Answer = None of the above.
A. 2 x 6 x 8 is a mathematical expression that evaluates to 96, but it is not an algorithm.

B. 4^5 is a mathematical expression that evaluates to 1024, but it is not an algorithm.

C. (3 x 8)^2 is a mathematical expression that evaluates to 144, but it is not an algorithm.

# Hack 3
function peakFinder(array) { let start = 0; let end = array.length - 1; while (start <= end) { let mid = Math.floor((start + end) / 2); if (array[mid] > array[mid-1] && array[mid] > array[mid+1]) { return The ${mid} indexed number, ${array[mid]} is a peak; } else if (array[mid] < array[mid-1]) { end = mid - 1; } else { start = mid + 1; } } return “No peak element found”; }
# Hack 4
def merge_sort(data): if len(data) <= 1: return data

mid = len(data) // 2 left_data = merge_sort(data[:mid]) right_data = merge_sort(data[mid:])

left_index = 0 right_index = 0 sorted_data = []

while left_index < len(left_data) and right_index < len(right_data): if left_data[left_index] < right_data[right_index]: sorted_data.append(left_data[left_index]) left_index += 1 else: sorted_data.append(right_data[right_index]) right_index += 1

sorted_data += left_data[left_index:] sorted_data += right_data[right_index:]

return sorted_data

if name == ‘main’: data = [9, 1, 7, 6, 2, 8, 5, 3, 4, 0] sorted_data = merge_sort(data) print(sorted_data)

# Hack 5
def heap_permutation(data, n): if n == 1: print(data) return

for i in range(n): heap_permutation(data, n - 1) if n % 2 == 0: data[i], data[n-1] = data[n-1], data[i] else: data[0], data[n-1] = data[n-1], data[0]

if name == ‘main’: data = [1, 2, 3] heap_permutation(data, len(data))